Student Handbook §1.1 — Computation of Grades

Specific grade computation and breakdown may vary depending on program-specific requirements. Some colleges or programs may adopt their own grading system subject to the approval of the academic council or implement program-specific procedures in determining passing/failing grades (for example, determination of passing grades for laboratory, OJT, or practicum courses, etc.).

However, the following general grading system may be observed:

FACE-TO-FACE / FLEXIBLE / FULLY ONLINE:
- Prelim Exam: 20%
- Midterm Exam: 20%
- Final Exam: 20%
- Assessment Tasks: 40%

SUMMER TERM:
- Prelim Exam: 20-30%
- Midterm Exam: 20-30%
- Final Exam: 20-30%
- Assessment Tasks: 40-60%

Assessment Tasks may include self-assessment or reflection papers, OSPE/OSCE, journals, reports, case presentations, recitations, quizzes, and group presentations.

Transmuted Grade Table:
- 98-100 → 1.00 → Excellent
- 95-97 → 1.25 → Excellent
- 92-94 → 1.50 → Very Good
- 89-91 → 1.75 → Very Good
- 86-88 → 2.00 → Good
- 83-85 → 2.25 → Good
- 80-82 → 2.50 → Fair
- 76-79 → 2.75 → Fair
- 75 → 3.00 → Passed
- 74 & Below → 5.00 → Failed

Other Grade Remarks

Grade Remarks:
- AW — Authorized Withdrawal
- UW — Unauthorized Withdrawal
- FDA — Failure Due to Absences
- NFE — No Final Examination
- INC — Incomplete

1.1.1 Students who incur a mark of NFE must take/complete the missed final examination within the current semester/term. If no final examination or its equivalent is completed within the above deadline, this component is recorded with a 0 (zero) score, and the Final Grade is computed as such.

1.1.2 An INC mark is given only for deficiencies in either Research, Practicum, OJT, or RLE courses. Students issued INC course grades are allowed only up to the next succeeding term or semester to complete the deficiency (ex., If the student incurs the INC grade in the 1st semester, the student is required to complete the INC grade by the 2nd semester). If it is not completed by the next succeeding semester or term, the student automatically incurs a failing grade of 5.0.

1.1.3 Students with courses that have no grade/s displayed in their grade sheet/s (either printed or internet/online based viewing) must send an email to the Dean/Registrar for Grades Verification.

1.1.4 If the procedure on grade verification is not observed, a grade of 5.0 is reflected for the course prior to the start of the semester.

1.1.5 It is the responsibility of the students to know their course grades (either printed grade sheets as issued by the Registrar's office or through online access) for the given term or semester.

1.1.6 Due to the emerging Data Privacy Act, only the students are given access to their grades and other related records. However, parents/guardians (or officially identified interested parties) may request for online access to their student's academic records and other school records only upon the approval of the student, thus providing them with the opportunity to monitor the student's status periodically.

Student Handbook §1.2 — The General Weighted Average (GWA)

1.2.1 The General Weighted Average is the overall scholastic standing of the student course work that is computed either at the end of the semester/term or upon program completion.

1.2.2 The GWA is computed by grade multiplied by the weight (in units) per course. The total of the grades is divided by the total number of credit units within the semester or program. The quotient is computed to 3 decimal places rounded off to 2.

1.2.3 NSTP, Practicum, RLE, OJT, and institutional course requirements (e.g., Veritas) are not included in the GWA computation.

Student Handbook §1.3 — Promotion to Next Level

1.3.1 In order to be promoted to the next level, the student must obtain a passing grade in all professional and general education courses enrolled for the year level as prescribed in the student's regular program curriculum. The year level will be based on the highest professional course/s in the higher year level.

1.3.2 Furthermore, the student should not be involved in any pending or ongoing major disciplinary case or action.

Student Handbook §1.4 — Academic Intervention Program

Our Lady of Fatima University has implemented an academic intervention program designed to promote student success by identifying and aiding students who may be experiencing difficulties in their academic coursework. The Dean's office implements specific procedures for the above.

Student Handbook §1.5 — Residency Policy

The continued stay of the student in the University shall be governed by the following:

1.5.1 Student fulfillment of the Disciplinary Code (Section Two: Code of Discipline).

1.5.2 A student must complete his/her enrolled programs no more than two school years beyond the regular program length. The following policies apply:

- 4-Year Baccalaureate Programs: Maximum of 6 school years to complete
- 6-Year Baccalaureate Programs: Maximum of 8 school years to complete

1.5.3 Academic periods with approved leave of absence or LOA (see Section 1.8.1 of this Student Handbook) are excluded from the computation of the maximum period of program completion.

1.5.4 Students who have exceeded their maximum residency requirement may submit a written appeal for extension to the concerned College Dean/Program Head. This must be approved and verified by the Registrar.

Student Handbook §1.6 — Policies on Academic Probation and Intervention

PROBATION LEVEL: Warning
Condition: A student who fails for the first time in two courses or subjects, regardless of the curricular year he is enrolled in, shall be placed under Warning status.
Intervention: A written notice from the Dean/Program Head with a return slip will be issued to the student and parents/guardians. The student will be called to a conference with the class/year-level adviser and Guidance Office personnel. The return slip must be signed by the student and his/her parents/guardian.

PROBATION LEVEL: Probation 1
Conditions: A student who incurred one or both of the following conditions shall be placed under Probation 1:
1. A student who failed in the same course twice.
2. A student who failed in three to four courses in the same term (semester or summer).

Interventions (all of the following shall apply):
1. The student shall be placed under the Monitoring Program for the immediate succeeding term.
2. The academic load for the immediate succeeding term, including the failed courses which must be re-enrolled, will be reduced by three units from the regular load.
3. A conference with the parent/guardian and student, together with the assigned Guidance Counselor and the Dean, shall be conducted.

PROBATION LEVEL: Probation 2
Conditions: A student who incurred one or a combination of the following conditions shall be placed under Probation 2:
1. Failed thrice in the same course.
2. Failed in five or more courses in the same term.

Interventions:
1. If a general education (non-professional) course is failed three times:
   a. The parents/guardian, together with the student, shall be invited to a conference with the Class/Year-Level Adviser and Guidance Officer, and an agreement shall be signed by all parties.
   b. The student's academic load, including the failed course/s, which must be taken again for the immediate succeeding term or semester (subject to availability), shall be reduced by six units from the regular load.
   c. The student will be closely monitored by the class adviser/year-level adviser and the Guidance Office personnel.

2. If a professional course is failed three times:
   a. The parents/guardian, together with the student, shall be invited to a conference with the Program Head and Class/Year-Level adviser and Guidance Officer, and an agreement shall be signed by all parties.
   b. The student shall be placed under the Monitoring Program for the immediate succeeding term. The student will be closely monitored by Guidance Office personnel. The student must immediately re-enroll (subject to course availability) and pass the above-failed course.
   c. The student's academic load, including the failed course/s which must be taken again, for the immediate succeeding term or semester (subject to availability) shall be reduced by six units from the regular load.
   d. The student shall be disqualified from the program and shall be advised to shift to another program offered by the University.

3. If the student fails in five or more courses (whether professional or general education courses) in the same semester or term:
   a. The parents/guardian, together with the student, shall be invited to a conference with the Dean and Guidance Officer, and an agreement shall be signed by all parties.
   b. The student shall be disqualified from the program and shall be advised to shift to another program offered by the University.

Note: Course failure shall include obtaining a point grade of 5.0 or its percentage equivalent, failure due to absences (FDA), and/or unauthorized withdrawal (UW).

Student Handbook §1.7 — Dismissal/Debarment of Students

1.7.1 Dismissal or debarment of students takes effect only when students under Probation II fail to meet the academic requirements at the end of the semester.

1.7.2 A student may also be debarred from enrolling if he or she is found guilty of immorality, dishonesty, and/or grave misconduct after due process and investigation and upon recommendation of the Ad Hoc Committee on Discipline.

Student Handbook §1.8 — Separation from the University

1.8.1 Leave of Absence

A student who will not enroll for a given semester or term must submit an accomplished Leave of Absence (LOA) form, signed by the parents or guardian and endorsed by the College Dean/Program Head, to the University Registrar indicating the reasons for such. The LOA form must be submitted not more than two weeks prior to the start of the concerned semester/term the LOA is applied for.

1.8.2 If the LOA has been applied and approved after the student has enrolled in the current semester, the University policy on dropping courses will be observed.

1.8.3 A student is prohibited from enrolling in another educational institution within the duration of the Leave of Absence.

1.8.4 Upon return, the student is obliged to submit a letter of reinstatement that is duly endorsed by the Dean or Program Head to the Registrar's Office to update his or her status, and the student is allowed to enroll accordingly.

1.8.5 A student who fails to enroll in the succeeding semester without an official Leave of Absence will be subjected to the retention policies of the University.

Other details involving student withdrawal may be found in Section 3 of this Handbook.

Student Handbook §1.9 — Exclusion and Expulsion

1.9.1 Exclusion is a penalty in which the University may remove or drop the name of a student from the school roll for having committed a major offense constituting but not limited to gross misconduct or violation of the student code of discipline, dishonesty, hazing, possession of deadly weapons, and selling and/or possession of prohibited drugs.

1.9.2 The transfer credentials of the student concerned are immediately issued, and the student is barred from re-admission to any OLFU campus.

1.9.3 Expulsion, on the other hand, is the severest penalty for an erring student, barring him/her from admission to any public or private school in the Philippines.

Student Handbook §1.10 — Graduation

1.10.1 Graduation is a formal, public recognition by OLFU that the student has fulfilled the minimum requirements set forth by the OLFU Academic Council, TESDA, CHED, and other concerned Philippine regulatory bodies or agencies. Graduation ceremonies are also an occasion wherein the achievement of the graduating student during their stay at the University is recognized.

1.10.2 Only students who have passed all their academic coursework, have completed all documentary requirements (e.g. admission or transfer credentials or records), have satisfied all their academic and non-academic requirements (inclusive of thesis or research requirements, deficiencies in required foundation courses (e.g. Veritas courses if applicable), NSTP, PE, and practicum work, clerkship duties or hospital rotations, and other similar obligations), have met all financial requirements to the University, and have no pending disciplinary action are eligible for graduation.

1.10.3 Students may not participate in any graduation ceremony/activity unless all the above requirements have been completed and administrative sanctions, if any, are served.

1.10.4 The Registrar's Office shall not accept clearance after the deadline, which is one week after the last day of the final exam for graduating students.

1.10.5 Students who have complied with all of their graduation requirements shall file for graduation clearance application online to the Registrar's Office prior to the deadlines set for clearance verification to the College, Library, and Accounting Office.

1.10.6 Failure to do so will result in non-inclusion in the official list of graduating students for that semester/term. Likewise, these students are not allowed to participate in or attend the graduation ceremonies for the semester.

1.10.7 If a student has not completed his or her requirements before the deadline set for the semester, then he or she may do so before the deadline set for the next succeeding semester or term in order to be included in the official graduation list and ceremonies for that period.

1.10.8 Candidates for graduation, including students who have completed their graduation clearances or have been formally dismissed from the University, are still subject to existing school policies as stipulated in the current edition of the student handbook and procedures governing official University transactions.

1.10.9 Graduates, including the above category of students who breach official University Policies (e.g., submission of spurious or fake documents or records, unauthorized misrepresentation, forgery of signatures of University Officials, etc.) or have violated provisions of the student code of discipline, will be subject to similar existing disciplinary sanctions for such. OLFU students (either officially or unofficially enrolled) who attend graduation ceremonies in the pretense that they are graduates are rigorously penalized with either exclusion or expulsion.

Student Handbook §1.11 — Graduation Honors (Latin Awards)

The terminal or end-of-program General Weighted Average (GWA) for the awarding of Graduation Honors (Latin Awards) with the minimum course grade that must be obtained in order to qualify shall be the following:

Summa Cum Laude:
- GWA Range (Entire Program): 1.00 - 1.16
- Minimum Course Grade: 1.25

Magna Cum Laude:
- GWA Range (Entire Program): 1.17 - 1.33
- Minimum Course Grade: 1.50

Cum Laude:
- GWA Range (Entire Program): 1.34 - 1.50
- Minimum Course Grade: 1.75

Students who are candidates for graduation with honors must have completed at least 75% of the total number of academic units or hours for graduation and must have been in residence in the University for at least three (3) years immediately prior to graduation. They must not have a mark of NFE (no final exam)/incomplete grades entry in the previous term.

Students found guilty of any major violation of the University's Code of Discipline, especially those related to academic integrity, such as cheating in any form, plagiarism, and falsification of documents, among others, shall be barred from graduating with honors, even if their weighted average is within the requirement for graduation with honors.